[IMP] payroll: update work entries, add menu (#7551)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/payroll/work_entries.rst

`Conflicting` filter in the :guilabel:`Search...` box, and all work entries appear in the list.

.. image:: work_entries/work-entries-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Conflicts dashboard view showing all employee's conflicts in work entries.

.. _payroll/adjust-view:

To change the view so that only the entries for a single day, week, or month are shown, click on
:guilabel:`Month`. A drop-down menu appears with the options of :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`,
or :guilabel:`Month`. Click on one of the options to display data for only that specific view.

Use the :guilabel:`⬅️ (left arrow)` and :guilabel:`➡️ (right arrow)` icons on the left and right
side of the :guilabel:`Month` button to adjust the displayed dates. The arrows adjust the date based
on the type of time selected. For example, if :guilabel:`Month` is selected, the arrows move one
month with each click of the arrow. If :guilabel:`Week` or :guilabel:`Day` is selected, the time
moves by either a week or a day for each click of the arrow, respectively.

At any point, to return to a view containing the current day, click the :guilabel:`Today` button.

Add a new work entry
====================

> If a work entry is missing and needs to be added, such as sick time, or if an employee forgot to
> clock in and out for a shift, click :guilabel:`New` to create a new work entry. A :guilabel:`Create`
> work entry pop-up form appears. Enter the following information on the form:
> 
> - :guilabel:`Description`: enter a short description for the work entry, such as `Sick Time`. If
>   this field is left blank, it automatically populates once an employee is selected. The default
>   entry is `Attendance: (Employee)`.
> - :guilabel:`Employee`: select the employee the work entry is for, using the drop-down menu.
> - :guilabel:`Work Entry Type`: select the :ref:`work entry type <payroll/work-entries-config>` using
>   the drop-down menu.
> - :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To`: enter the start (:guilabel:`From`) and end (:guilabel:`To`)
>   dates and times for the work entry. First, click on either the :guilabel:`From` or :guilabel:`To`
>   line and a calendar pop-up appears. Select the date by navigating to the correct month and year
>   using the :guilabel:`< (left arrow)` and :guilabel:`> (right arrow)` icons, then click on the
>   specific day.
> 
>   Next, select the time by clicking on either the hour or minute fields at the bottom of the
>   calendar, and select the desired time for both the hour and minutes.
> 
>   When the date and time are correct for the entry, click the :guilabel:`Apply` button.
> - :guilabel:`Duration`: displays the hours based on the :guilabel:`To` and :guilabel:`From` entries.
>   Modifying this field modifies the :guilabel:`To` field (the :guilabel:`From` field does not
>   change).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a work entry is missing and needs to be added, such as sick time, or if an employee forgot to
clock in and out for a shift, click :guilabel:`New` on the :guilabel:`Work Entry` dashboard, to
create a new work entry.

A :guilabel:`Create` work entry pop-up form appears.

Enter the following information on the form:

- :guilabel:`Description`: enter a short description for the work entry, such as `Sick Time`. If
  this field is left blank, it automatically populates once an employee is selected. The default
  entry is `Attendance: (Employee)`.
- :guilabel:`Employee`: select the employee the work entry is for, using the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Work Entry Type`: select the :ref:`work entry type <payroll/work-entries-config>` using
  the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To`: enter the start (:guilabel:`From`) and end (:guilabel:`To`)
  dates and times for the work entry.
  
  First, click on either the :guilabel:`From` or :guilabel:`To` line to reveal a calendar pop-up
  window. Select the date by navigating to the correct month and year, using the :guilabel:`< (left
  arrow)` and :guilabel:`> (right arrow)` icons, then click on the specific day.

  Next, select the time, by clicking on either the hour or minute fields at the bottom of the
  calendar, and select the desired time for both the hour and minutes.

  When the date and time are correct for the entry, click the :guilabel:`Apply` button.
- :guilabel:`Duration`: displays the hours based on the :guilabel:`To` and :guilabel:`From` entries.
  Modifying this field modifies the :guilabel:`To` field (the :guilabel:`From` field does not
  change).
```

Once the information is entered, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the entry and close the
pop-up.

.. image:: work_entries/create.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Filling in the work entry Create form in Odoo.

.. _payroll/conflicts:

Conflicts
=========

A conflict appears for any request that has not been approved, such as sick time or vacation, or if
there are any errors on the work entry, such as required fields being left blank. Conflicts are
required to be resolved before payslips can be generated.

> Any work entry that has a conflict to be resolved is indicated on the main :guilabel:`Work Entry`
> dashboard. Navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Work Entries`. Only
> conflicts needing resolution are shown by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any work entry that has a conflict to be resolved is indicated on the main :guilabel:`Work Entry`
dashboard, which can be accessed by navigating to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries -->
Work Entries`. Only conflicts needing resolution are shown by default.
```

Conflicts are indicated with an orange triangle in the top-left corner of each individual work
entry. Click on an individual work entry to see the date and time for the specific work entry, then

> click :guilabel:`Edit` to view the conflict details in a pop-up.

Author: Added! Good idea.

> The conflict is briefly explained in an orange text box.

Reviewer: I also the doc could benefit from a screenshot of this pop-up, as well

> The conflict is briefly explained in an orange text box.

Author: I added it- then realized the one directly beneath it was the same image with different call-outs. So I deleted the subsequent one and kept the new one here.

If the conflict is due to a time off request that has not been approved yet, a :guilabel:`Time Off`
field appears on the left side, with the type of time off requested in the description.

Time off conflicts
------------------

The most common work entry conflicts are for time off requests that have been submitted but not yet
approved, which results in duplicate work entries for that employee (one for time off and another
for regular work). If there is a conflict because a time off request is in the system for the same
time that a regular work entry already exists, the time off request is entered in the
:guilabel:`Time Off` field.

Resolve on work entry
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The time off conflict can be resolved either on the work entry pop-up, or on a detailed time off
request pop-up. To resolve the time off conflict on this work entry pop-up, click the
:guilabel:`Approve Time Off` button to approve the time off request and resolve the work entry
conflict.

The :guilabel:`Approve Time Off` and :guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` buttons disappear. Click the
:guilabel:`Save & Close` button to close the pop-up. The conflict disappears from the work entry

> dashboard since the conflict is resolved.

Author: I'll keep that in mind form now on!

and work entries are regenerated (or recreated) from the applications that created them.

This method for correcting a large amount of conflicts is recommended to keep all records correct.
While :ref:`conflicts <payroll/conflicts>` *can* be resolved individually, if the conflicts are
caused from another application, it is best practice to ensure the records in the other applications
are also correct. That is why it is recommended to resolve these conflicts in the applications that
created the conflict.

Another reason this method is recommended, is because when work entries are regenerated, the
conflicts reappears if the issue in the related application is not resolved.

First, ensure the issues are resolved in the specific applications that caused the work entry
conflicts. Next, click the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` button at the top of the work entries
dashboard, and a :guilabel:`Work Entry Regeneration` pop-up appears.

Select the :guilabel:`Employees` to regenerate work entries for from the :guilabel:`drop-down menu`,
and adjust the :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` fields so the correct date range is displayed.

> Click the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` button and the work entries are recreated. Once
> finished, the pop-up closes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` button, and the work entries are recreated. Once
finished, the pop-up window closes.
```

.. image:: work_entries/regenerate-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Regenerate a work entry for a particular employee.

.. example::
   An employee has incorrect work entries generated from the *Planning* app because they were
   incorrectly assigned to two work stations simultaneously. This should be fixed in the *Planning*
   app instead of the *Payroll* app.

>    To correct this issue, modify the employee's schedule in the *Planning* app so they are correctly
>    assigned to only one work station. Then, in the *Payroll* app, regenerate work entries for that
>    employee, for that time period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To correct this issue, modify the employee's schedule in the *Planning* app so, they are correctly
   assigned to only one work station. Then, in the *Payroll* app, regenerate work entries for that
   employee, for that specific time period.
```

   The *Payroll* app then pulls the new, corrected data form the *Planning* app, and recreates the
   correct work entries for that employee. All conflicts for that employee are now resolved.

Generating payslips
===================

To generate payslips, :ref:`navigate to the time period <payroll/adjust-view>` the payslips should
be generated for. Ensure the :guilabel:`Conflicting` filter is removed. When the desired pay period
is displayed, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button.

.. tip::

>    If the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button is not active (appears pale purple instead of dark
>    purple), that indicates there are conflicts, or the date selected includes dates in the future.
>    Resolve all conflicts before generating payslips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button is not active (appears pale purple, instead of dark
   purple), that indicates there are conflicts, or the date selected includes dates in the future.
   Resolve all conflicts before generating payslips.
```

A batch entry appears for the time period selected. The batch name populates the :guilabel:`Name`
field in a default `From (date) to (date)` format.

> The date range the payslips apply to appears in the :guilabel:`Period` field, and the company
> appears in the :guilabel:`Company` field. It is not possible to make changes to this form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The date range to which the payslips apply appears in the :guilabel:`Period` field, and the company
appears in the :guilabel:`Company` field. It is **not** possible to make changes to this form.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to create the payslips for the batch.

> Click the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button in the top-right to view all the payslips for the batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button at the top of the page to view all the payslips for the batch.
```

.. image:: work_entries/generate-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Information that appears when generating payslips.

.. note::
   Payslips have a status of *Waiting* until the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button is clicked.

>    After, the payslip status changes to *Done*.

Reviewer: In my runbot, and in your screenshot, I believe the statuses are: New, Confirmed, Done, and Paid. Can you confirm? If a change needs to be made, please adhere to the correct status names in the doc, if needed. Thanks 👍

Author: I am going to remove this, because you see this in the Payslips - All Payslips part of Payroll, not in the Work Entries. It seems like too much info here, and does not reflect the image. I was just worried people would do this part, then wonder why they say 'waiting' in the payslips section if they did what they thought they needed to here.

Printing payslips
-----------------

> To print payslips, first view the individual payslips by clicking the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart
> button on the batch form. Next, select the payslips to print in the payslip list. Click the box next
> to each payslip to print, or click the box next to :guilabel:`Reference` to select all the payslips
> in the list at once. Click the :guilabel:`Print` button, and a PDF file is created with all the
> specified payslips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To print payslips, first view the individual payslips, by clicking the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart
button on the batch form.

Next, select the payslips to print from the :guilabel:`Payslips` list. Click the box next to each
payslip to print, or click the box to the left of the :guilabel:`Reference` column title, to select
all the payslips on the list at once.

Click the :guilabel:`Print` button, and a PDF file is created with all the specified payslips.
```

.. image:: work_entries/print-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Print button for printing the payslips.

.. note::

>    The :guilabel:`Print` button does not appear until at least one payslip is selected in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The :guilabel:`Print` button does **not** appear until at least one payslip is selected from the list.
```

Time off to report
==================

If a time off request is submitted for a time period that was already processed on a payslip, the
time off request appears in the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report`, with a status of :guilabel:`To defer
to next payslip`. This is because the employee was already paid for that day, and it was logged as
time spent at work, as a typical work day.

> In order to keep the employee's time off balances correct, the time off request must be applied to
> the following pay period. This not only ensures time off request balances are current, but it also
> eliminates the need to redo work entries, cancel paychecks, and reissue paychecks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to keep the employee's time off balances correct, the time off request **must** be applied
to the following pay period. This not only ensures time off request balances are current, it also
eliminates the need to redo work entries, cancel paychecks, and reissue paychecks.
```

The most common scenario when this situation occurs, is when payslips are processed a day or two
before the pay period ends, and an employee is unexpectedly sick on one of the last days of the pay
period. The employee puts in a time off request for a day that was already processed on a payslip as
a regular work day. Instead of canceling the payslip, modifying the work entries, and reissuing the

> paycheck, Odoo allows for those time off requests to be applied to the following pay period instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paycheck, Odoo allows for those time off requests to be applied to the following pay period, instead.
```

To view all the time off requests that need to be deferred to the next payslip, navigate to
:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Time Off to Report`. The default filter for this
report is :guilabel:`To Defer`.

All time off requests that need to be applied to the following pay period appear with a
:guilabel:`Payslip State` of :guilabel:`To defer to next payslip`.

.. image:: work_entries/time-off-to-report.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: A list of all time off requests that were not approved before payslips were generated.

Reviewer: it might be my comp, but this screenshot appears to be a *little* on the fuzzy side :) you may want to double-check and consider a fresh one during your revisions.

Author: Agreed- that's what happens when I take too wide a shot! I cropped out the parts I didn't need and it's much more clear now.

Defer multiple time off entries
-------------------------------

To select the work entries to defer, click the box to the left of the work entry line. To select all

> work entries in the list, click the box next to :guilabel:`Employees` at the top of the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
work entries in the list, click the box to the left of the :guilabel:`Employees` column title, at
the top of the list.
```

Once any work entry is selected, two buttons appear at the top of the report: a :guilabel:`(#)
Selected` button, and an :guilabel:`Actions` button. The :guilabel:`(#) Selected` button indicates
how many entries are currently selected.

When all the desired work entries are selected, click the :guilabel:`Actions` button, and a menu
appears with several choices. Click :guilabel:`Defer to Next Month` in the list, and all selected
entries are deferred to the following month.

.. image:: work_entries/batch-defer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The actions button and # Selected buttons that appear after any selections are made.

Defer individual time off entries
---------------------------------

Time off requests appearing on the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report` list can be deferred individually.

> Click on an individual time off request and the details for that request load. The specific details
> for the time off request appear on the left-hand side, and all of the employee's submitted time off
> requests appear on the right-hand side (including the request in the details on the left-hand side).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on an individual time off request, and the details for that request load.

The specific details for the time off request appear on the left-hand side, and all of the
employee's submitted time off requests appear on the right-hand side (including the request in the
details on the left-hand side).
```

Work entries
============

The *Work Entries* dashboard, which is found by navigating to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Work
Entries --> Work Entries`, provides a visual overview of the individual work entries for every
employee, with each day split into a morning shift and an afternoon shift. Work entries appear in
alphabetical order, by employee first name. The entire current months is displayed, with the current
day highlighted in pale yellow.

The default filter enabled on the *Work Entries* dashboard is `Conflicting`, which displays only

> entries with a conflict that need to be resolved.

Author: I love that suggestion! Done!

Work entries
============

Work entries are created automatically in the *Payroll* app, based on the employee's :ref:`salary
structure type <payroll/structure-types>`, and from the *Planning*, *Attendances*, and *Time Off*
applications.

The *Work Entries* dashboard of the *Payroll* application provides a visual overview of the
individual work entries for every employee.

To open the dashboard, navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Work Entries`.

On the :guilabel:`Work Entry` dashboard, work entries appear in alphabetical order, based on the
first name of the employees. The entire month is displayed, with the current day highlighted in pale
yellow.

> If any entries have :ref:`conflicts <payroll/conflicts>` that need to be resolved, the dashboard
> defaults to filter only the `Conflicting` entries.

Reviewer 2: :guilabel:\`Conflicting\` was used later in the doc, and I like using the :guilabel: when referring to the active filters. Can use literal formatting when typing in to apply a filter.
```suggestion
If any entries have :ref:`conflicts <payroll/conflicts>` that need to be resolved, the dashboard
defaults to filter only the :guilabel:`Conflicting` entries.
```

> To remove the filter from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to view all work entries, click the

Author: OK no problem! But its in a lot of my docs, so I hope I catch them all moving forward =D

> To remove the filter from the :guilabel:`Search` bar to view all work entries, click the
> :guilabel:`✖️ (remove)` icon on the `Conflicting` filter in the :guilabel:`Search` bar, and all
> work entries appear in the list.

Reviewer 2: Please match the text on the UI exactly when using :guilabels: (:guilabel:\`Search\` ➡️ :guilabel:\`Search...\`)
```suggestion
To remove the filter from the search bar to view all work entries, click the :guilabel:`✖️ (remove)`
icon on the :guilabel:`Conflicting` filter in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, and all work entries
appear in the list.
```
or
```suggestion
To remove the filter from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to view all work entries, click the
:guilabel:`✖️ (remove)` icon on the :guilabel:`Conflicting` filter in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar,
and all work entries appear in the list.
```

Author: Ahhh, ok. When KSC did my last review, he changed it to the GUI 'Search...' like you have in the second option, but then changed it in a 2nd review to remove the "...".  I do agree with you , that is how it appears, so that's how it should look. I'll see if we can add this to our linter/style guide so we can be consistent.

  dates and times for the work entry. First, click on either the :guilabel:`From` or :guilabel:`To`
  line and a calendar pop-up appears. Select the date by navigating to the correct month and year
  using the :guilabel:`< (left arrow)` and :guilabel:`> (right arrow)` icons, then click on the
  specific day.

  Next, select the time by clicking on either the hour or minute fields at the bottom of the
  calendar, and select the desired time for both the hour and minutes.

  When the date and time are correct for the entry, click the :guilabel:`Apply` button.
- :guilabel:`Duration`: displays the hours based on the :guilabel:`To` and :guilabel:`From` entries.
  Modifying this field modifies the :guilabel:`To` field (the :guilabel:`From` field does not
  change).

Once the information is entered, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the entry and close the
pop-up.

.. image:: work_entries/create.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Filling in the work entry Create form in Odoo.

.. _payroll/regenerate-work-entries:

Regenerate work entries
=======================

After work entries have been either added or modified, the work entries need to be regenerated for

> the affected employees. Click on the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` button at the top of the

Author: Lol- good point! First, I agree with using "they" - I just wanted to be 110% clear, which is why I used "work entries" again. Second-  I had checked with the HR experts, and they need to be regenerated when they have been changed or added, because (I think, but will double check) they were already generated once. When they were modified or added after the fact, they must be regenerated so they are computed correctly for the payslips.

So if I have a work entry that said I was working 8 hours that day but I actually only worked 4 (maybe because of sick time, vacation time, or just a regular old no-show) then the entry has to be updated to reflect what happened. Since they were already 'generated' they need to be 'regenerated' so they are updated and correct before issuing payslips.

I will re-check with the experts to make sure I am understanding this correctly, and I will expand on this so it is understood why we do this. Ill be honest, I have a 90% grasp on this but the last 10% is still "magic" to me =D

> the affected employees. Click on the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` button at the top of the

Author: OK, I was completely WRONG on how regenerating work entries works!! I chatted with Emilio (who has been helping me with HR questions) and he explained this for me. I have now updated this section, moved it (it didn't make sense to keep it here) and I also added a sentence in the very beginning of the doc, so this section makes sense. 

TL/DR: If conflicts happen form an app (time off, planning, etc) you can/should resolve the conflict in the APP that created the issue. THEN, you regenerate the work entries in payroll, which deletes the old entries and pulls new ones for the respective apps.

This keeps the data across ALL apps correct instead of just fixing them in the payroll app. Because if you DON'T fix it, then if you regenerate work entries- the issue appears again.

required to be resolved before payslips can be generated.

Any work entry that has a conflict to be resolved is indicated on the main :guilabel:`Work Entry`
dashboard, which can be accessed by navigating to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries -->
Work Entries`. Only conflicts needing resolution are shown by default.

Conflicts are indicated with an orange triangle in the top-left corner of each individual work
entry. Click on an individual work entry to see the date and time for the specific work entry, then
click :guilabel:`Edit` to view the conflict details in a pop-up window.

.. image:: work_entries/conflict-pop-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A row of conflicts, with one entry showing details for the conflict.

The conflict is briefly explained in an orange text box in the :guilabel:`Open` pop-up window that
appears.

The :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Employee`, and :guilabel:`Work Entry Type` are listed on
the left side of the pop-up window. The :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` date and time range, as

> well as the total time (in hours), appears in the :guilabel:`Duration` field on the right side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
well as the total time (in hours) in the :guilabel:`Duration` field, appears on the right side.
```

If the conflict is due to a time off request that has not been approved yet, a :guilabel:`Time Off`
field appears on the left side, with the type of time off requested in the description.

.. image:: work_entries/conflict-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed conflict pop-up window that appears when Edit is clicked.

Time off conflicts
------------------

The most common work entry conflicts are for time off requests that have been submitted, but not yet
approved, which results in duplicate work entries for that employee (one for time off and another
for regular work).

If there is a conflict because a time off request is in the system for the same time that a regular
work entry already exists, the time off request is entered in the :guilabel:`Time Off` field.

Resolve on work entry
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The time off conflict can be resolved either on the work entry pop-up window, or on a detailed time

> off request pop-up window.

Reviewer: I would move this portion *just* above the 'Resolve on work entry' section, as a sort of lead-in to the 2 sections that follow.

> To resolve the time off conflict on this work entry pop-up, click the :guilabel:`Approve Time Off`
> button to approve the time off request, and resolve the work entry conflict.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve the time off conflict on this work entry pop-up window, click the :guilabel:`Approve Time
Off` button to approve the time off request, and resolve the work entry conflict.
```

The :guilabel:`Approve Time Off` and :guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` buttons disappear. Click the
:guilabel:`Save & Close` button to close the pop-up window. The conflict disappears from the
:guilabel:`Work Entry` dashboard, since the conflict is resolved.

Resolve on time off request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To resolve the time off conflict on the detailed time off request pop-up window, click the
:guilabel:`Internal Link` button at the end of the :guilabel:`Time Off` entry line, and the time off

> request details appear in a pop-up window. The request can be modified, if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request details appear in a new pop-up window. The request can be modified, if needed.
```

   correctly assigned to only one work station. Then, in the *Payroll* app, regenerate work entries
   for that employee, for that specific time period.

   The *Payroll* app then pulls the new, corrected data form the *Planning* app, and recreates the
   correct work entries for that employee. All conflicts for that employee are now resolved.

Generating payslips
===================

To generate payslips, :ref:`navigate to the time period <payroll/adjust-view>` the payslips should
be generated for. Ensure the :guilabel:`Conflicting` filter is removed. When the desired pay period
is displayed, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button.

.. tip::
   If the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button is not active (appears pale purple, instead of dark
   purple), that indicates there are conflicts, or the date selected includes dates in the future.
   Resolve all conflicts before generating payslips.

When the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button is clicked, a batch entry appears on a separate page
for the time period selected.

The batch name populates the :guilabel:`Batch Name` field in a default `From (date) to (date)`
format.

> The date range to which the payslips apply to appears in the :guilabel:`Period` field, and the
> company appears in the :guilabel:`Company` field. It is **not** possible to make changes to this
> form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The date range to which the payslips apply appears in the :guilabel:`Period` field, and the
company appears in the :guilabel:`Company` field. It is **not** possible to make changes to this
form.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to create the payslips for the batch.

Click the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button at the top of the page to view all the payslips for the
batch.

.. image:: work_entries/generate-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Information that appears when generating payslips.

Printing payslips
-----------------

To print payslips, first view the individual payslips by clicking the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart
button on the batch form.

Next, select the payslips to print from the :guilabel:`Payslips` list. Click the box next to each
payslip to print, or click the box to the left of the :guilabel:`Reference` column title, to select
all the payslips in the list at once.

Click the :guilabel:`Print` button, and a PDF file is created with all the specified payslips.

.. image:: work_entries/print-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Print button for printing the payslips.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Print` button does **not** appear until at least one payslip is selected in the
   list.

Time off to report
==================

If a time off request is submitted for a time period that was already processed on a payslip, the

> time off request appears in the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report`, with a status of :guilabel:`To defer
> to next payslip`. This is because the employee was already paid for that day, and it was logged as
> time spent at work, as a typical work day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time off request appears in the :guilabel:`Time Off` page in the *Payroll* app, which is accessible
by navigating to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Time Off to Report`. 

On the :guilabel:`Time Off` page, the request appears with a status of :guilabel:`To defer to next
payslip`. This is because the employee was already paid for that day, and it was logged as time
spent at work, as a typical work day.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to create the payslips for the batch.

Click the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button at the top of the page to view all the payslips for the
batch.

.. image:: work_entries/generate-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Information that appears when generating payslips.

Printing payslips
-----------------

To print payslips, first view the individual payslips by clicking the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart
button on the batch form.

Next, select the payslips to print from the :guilabel:`Payslips` list. Click the box next to each
payslip to print, or click the box to the left of the :guilabel:`Reference` column title, to select
all the payslips in the list at once.

Click the :guilabel:`Print` button, and a PDF file is created with all the specified payslips.

.. image:: work_entries/print-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Print button for printing the payslips.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Print` button does **not** appear until at least one payslip is selected in the
   list.

Time off to report
==================

If a time off request is submitted for a time period that was already processed on a payslip, the

> time off request appears in the :guilabel:`Time Off` page in the *Payroll* app, which is accessible
> by navigating to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Time Off to Report`.

Reviewer 2: No need for a guilabel on the "_Time Off_ page" since that text is not on the active UI
```suggestion
time off request appears in the *Time Off* page in the *Payroll* app, which is accessible by
navigating to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Time Off to Report`.
```

required to be resolved before payslips can be generated.

Any work entry that has a conflict to be resolved is indicated on the main :guilabel:`Work Entry`
dashboard. Navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Work Entries --> Work Entries`, and  only
conflicts needing resolution are shown by default.

Conflicts are indicated with an orange triangle in the top left corner of each individual work
entry. Click on an individual work entry to see the date and time for the specific work entry, then
click :guilabel:`Edit` to view the conflict details in a pop-up.

The conflict is briefly explained in an orange text box.

The :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Employee`, and :guilabel:`Work Entry Type` are listed on
the left side of the pop-up. The :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` date and time range, as well as
the total time (in hours), appears in the :guilabel:`Duration` field on the right side.

> If the conflict is due to a time-off request that has not been approved yet, a :guilabel:`Time Off`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the conflict is due to a time off request that has not been approved yet, a :guilabel:`Time Off`
```

field appears on the left side, with the type of time off requested in the description.

Time off conflicts
------------------

The most common work entry conflicts are for time off requests that have been submitted but not yet
approved, which result in duplicate work entries for that employee (one for time-off and another for

> regular work). If there is a conflict because a time-off request is in the system for the same time
> that a regular work entry already exists, the time-off request is entered in the :guilabel:`Time

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
regular work). If there is a conflict because a time off request is in the system for the same time
that a regular work entry already exists, the time off request is entered in the :guilabel:`Time
```

Off` field.

Resolve on work entry
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The time-off conflict can be resolved either on the work entry pop-up, or on a detailed time-off
> request pop-up. To resolve the time-off conflict on this work entry pop-up, click the
> :guilabel:`Approve Time Off` button to approve the time off request and resolve the work entry
> conflict.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The time off conflict can be resolved either on the work entry pop-up, or on a detailed time off
request pop-up. To resolve the time off conflict on this work entry pop-up, click the
:guilabel:`Approve Time Off` button to approve the time off request and resolve the work entry
conflict.
```

The :guilabel:`Approve Time Off` and :guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` buttons disappear. Click the
:guilabel:`Save & Close` button to close the pop-up. The conflict disappears from the work entry
dashboard since the conflict is resolved.

.. image:: work_entries/approve-work-entry.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The time-off conflict in the work entry detail pop-up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :alt: The time off conflict in the work entry detail pop-up.
```

Resolve on time off request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To resolve the time-off conflict on the detailed time-off request pop-up, click the
> :guilabel:`Internal Link` button at the end of the :guilabel:`Time Off` entry line and the time-off
> request details appear in a pop-up window. The request can be modified if needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To resolve the time-off conflict on the detailed time off request pop-up, click the
:guilabel:`Internal Link` button at the end of the :guilabel:`Time Off` entry line and the time off
request details appear in a pop-up window. The request can be modified if needed.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Approve` button to approve the request, then click the :guilabel:`Save & Close`
button to save the changes and go back to the work entry conflict pop-up.

.. image:: work_entries/time-off-details.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The detailed time-off request form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :alt: The detailed time off request form.
```

Now, the :guilabel:`Approve Time Off` button is hidden, only the :guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` button
is visible. If the approval was a mistake, the request can be refused here by clicking the
:guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` button.

> Since the time-off was approved in the time-off window, click the :guilabel:`X` in the top right
> corner to close the window. The conflict disappears from the work entry dashboard since the conflict
> is resolved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the time off was approved in the time off window, click the :guilabel:`X` in the top right
corner to close the window. The conflict disappears from the work entry dashboard since it has been resolved.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to create the payslips for the batch.

Click the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button in the top right to view all the payslips for the batch.

.. image:: work_entries/generate-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Information that appears when generating payslips.

.. note::
   Payslips will have a status of *Waiting* until the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button is
   clicked. After, the payslip status will change to *Done*.

Printing payslips
-----------------

To print payslips, first view the individual payslips by clicking the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart
button on the batch form. Next, select the payslips to print in the payslip list. Click the box next
to each payslip to print, or click the box next to :guilabel:`Reference` to select all the payslips
in the list at once. Click the :guilabel:`Print` button, and a PDF file is created with all the
specified payslips.

.. image:: work_entries/print-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Print button for printing the payslips.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Print` button does not appear until at least one payslip is selected in the list.

Time Off to Report
==================

> If a time-off request is submitted for a time period that was already processed on a payslip, the
> time-off request appears in the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report`, with a status of :guilabel:`To defer
> to next payslip`. This is because the employee was already paid for that day, and it was logged as
> time spent at work, as a typical work day.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a time off request is submitted for a time period that was already processed on a payslip, the
time off request appears in the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report`, with a status of :guilabel:`To defer
to next payslip`. This is because the employee was already paid for that day, and it was logged as
time spent at work, as a typical work day.
```

> In order to keep the employee's time-off balances correct, the time-off request must be applied to
> the following pay period. This not only ensures time-off request balances are current, but this also
> eliminates the need to redo work entries, cancel paychecks, and reissue paychecks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to keep the employee's time off balances correct, the time off request must be applied to
the following pay period. This not only ensures time off request balances are current, but it also
eliminates the need to redo work entries, cancel paychecks, and reissue paychecks.
```

The most common scenario when this situation occurs, is when payslips are processed a day or two
before the pay period ends, and an employee is unexpectedly sick on one of the last days of the pay

> period. The employee puts in a time-off request for a day that was already processed on a payslip as
> a regular work day. Instead of canceling the payslip, modifying the work entries, and reissuing the
> paycheck, Odoo allows for those time-off requests to be applied to the following pay period instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
period. The employee puts in a time off request for a day that was already processed on a payslip as
a regular work day. Instead of canceling the payslip, modifying the work entries, and reissuing the
paycheck, Odoo allows for those time off requests to be applied to the following pay period instead.
```

> To view all the time-off requests that need to be deferred to the next payslip, navigate to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To view all the time off requests that need to be deferred to the next payslip, navigate to
```

:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Time Off to Report`. The default filter for this
report is :guilabel:`To Defer`.

> All time-off requests that need to be applied to the following pay period appear, with a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All time off requests that need to be applied to the following pay period appear with a
```

:guilabel:`Payslip State` of :guilabel:`To defer to next payslip`.

.. image:: work_entries/time-off-to-report.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: A list of all time-off requests that were not approved before payslips were generated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :alt: A list of all time off requests that were not approved before payslips were generated.
```

> Defer multiple time-off requests

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Defer multiple time off requests
```

Reviewer 3: Should this heading be "defer multiple work entries"? Time off requests are not mentioned in this section, only work entries.

Author: I am torn because the only work entries that can be deferred are ones related to time off (like vacation, sick time, etc). So even though they are work entries, it is only for specific work entries that are for a time off type. A regular work entry would not appear here. In the settings section, the option to "Defer Time Off" appears in the "Time Off" section since it only applies to time off entries. SO I thought to be very clear, I would say time off in this heading so users know that it's only for time off entries.

--------------------------------

To select the work entries to defer, click the box to the left of the work entry line. To select all
work entries in the list, click the box next to :guilabel:`Employees` at the top of the list.

Once any work entry is selected, two buttons appear at the top of the report: a :guilabel:`(#)
Selected`  button, and an :guilabel:`Actions` button. The :guilabel:`(#) Selected` button indicates
how many entries are currently selected.

When all the desired work entries are selected, click the :guilabel:`Actions` button, and a menu
appears with several choices. Click :guilabel:`Defer to Next Month` in the list, and all selected
entries are deferred to the following month.

.. image:: work_entries/batch-defer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The actions button and # Selected buttons that appear after any selections are made.

> Defer individual time-off requests
> ----------------------------------
> 
> Time-off requests appearing on the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report` list can be deferred individually.
> 
> Click on an individual time-off request and the details for that request load. The specific details
> for the time-off request appear on the left-hand side, and all of the employee's submitted time-off
> requests appear on the right-hand side (including the request in the details on the left-hand side).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Defer individual time off requests
----------------------------------

Time-off requests appearing on the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report` list can be deferred individually.

Click on an individual time off request and the details for that request load. The specific details
for the time off request appear on the left-hand side, and all of the employee's submitted time off
requests appear on the right-hand side (including the request in the details on the left-hand side).
```

> To defer the time-off request to the next payslip, click the :guilabel:`Report to Next Month` button
> at the top. Once processed, the :guilabel:`Report to Next Month` button disappears, and the
> :guilabel:`Payslip State` changes from :guilabel:`To defer to next payslip` to :guilabel:`Computed
> in Current Payslip`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To defer the time off request to the next payslip, click the :guilabel:`Report to Next Month` button
at the top. Once processed, the :guilabel:`Report to Next Month` button disappears, and the
:guilabel:`Payslip State` changes from :guilabel:`To defer to next payslip` to :guilabel:`Computed
in Current Payslip`.
```

To go back to the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report` list, click on :guilabel:`Time Off` in the
breadcrumb menu.

.. image:: work_entries/single-defer.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The time-off details for an individual request that needs to be deferred.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :alt: The time off details for an individual request that needs to be deferred.
```

required to be resolved before payslips can be generated.

Any work entry that has a conflict to be resolved is indicated on the main :guilabel:`Work Entry`
dashboard. Navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Work Entries`. Only
conflicts needing resolution are shown by default.

> Conflicts are indicated with an orange triangle in the top left corner of each individual work

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Conflicts are indicated with an orange triangle in the top-left corner of each individual work
```

entry. Click on an individual work entry to see the date and time for the specific work entry, then
click :guilabel:`Edit` to view the conflict details in a pop-up.

The conflict is briefly explained in an orange text box.

The :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Employee`, and :guilabel:`Work Entry Type` are listed on
the left side of the pop-up. The :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` date and time range, as well as
the total time (in hours), appears in the :guilabel:`Duration` field on the right side.

If the conflict is due to a time off request that has not been approved yet, a :guilabel:`Time Off`
field appears on the left side, with the type of time off requested in the description.

Time off conflicts
------------------

The most common work entry conflicts are for time off requests that have been submitted but not yet

> approved, which results in duplicate work entries for that employee (one for time off and another for

Reviewer 3: Check line length (over 100 characters)

:guilabel:`Save & Close` button to close the pop-up. The conflict disappears from the work entry
dashboard since the conflict is resolved.

.. image:: work_entries/approve-work-entry.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The time off conflict in the work entry detail pop-up.

Resolve on time off request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To resolve the time off conflict on the detailed time off request pop-up, click the
:guilabel:`Internal Link` button at the end of the :guilabel:`Time Off` entry line and the time off
request details appear in a pop-up window. The request can be modified if needed.

Click the :guilabel:`Approve` button to approve the request, then click the :guilabel:`Save & Close`
button to save the changes and go back to the work entry conflict pop-up.

.. image:: work_entries/time-off-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed time off request form.

Now, the :guilabel:`Approve Time Off` button is hidden, only the :guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` button
is visible. If the approval was a mistake, the request can be refused here by clicking the
:guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` button.

> Since the time off was approved in the time off window, click the :guilabel:`X` in the top right

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the time off was approved in the time off window, click the :guilabel:`X` in the top-right
```

resolved.

After conflicts have been resolved, :ref:`work entries must be regenerated
<payroll/regenerate-work-entries>` for each employee by clicking the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work
Entries` button.

Generating payslips
===================

To generate payslips, :ref:`navigate to the time period <payroll/adjust-view>` the payslips should
be generated for. Ensure the :guilabel:`Conflicting` filter is removed. When the desired pay period
is displayed, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button.

.. tip::
   If the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button is not active (appears pale purple instead of dark
   purple), that indicates there are conflicts, or the date selected includes dates in the future.
   Resolve all conflicts before generating payslips.

A batch entry appears for the time period selected. The batch name populates the :guilabel:`Name`
field in a default `From (date) to (date)` format.

The date range the payslips apply to appears in the :guilabel:`Period` field, and the company
appears in the :guilabel:`Company` field. It is not possible to make changes to this form.

Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to create the payslips for the batch.

> Click the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button in the top right to view all the payslips for the batch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button in the top-right to view all the payslips for the batch.
```

:guilabel:`Payslip State` of :guilabel:`To defer to next payslip`.

.. image:: work_entries/time-off-to-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of all time off requests that were not approved before payslips were generated.

Defer multiple time off entries
-------------------------------

To select the work entries to defer, click the box to the left of the work entry line. To select all
work entries in the list, click the box next to :guilabel:`Employees` at the top of the list.

Once any work entry is selected, two buttons appear at the top of the report: a :guilabel:`(#)
Selected` button, and an :guilabel:`Actions` button. The :guilabel:`(#) Selected` button indicates
how many entries are currently selected.

When all the desired work entries are selected, click the :guilabel:`Actions` button, and a menu
appears with several choices. Click :guilabel:`Defer to Next Month` in the list, and all selected
entries are deferred to the following month.

.. image:: work_entries/batch-defer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The actions button and # Selected buttons that appear after any selections are made.

Defer individual time off entries
---------------------------------

> Time-off requests appearing on the :guilabel:`Time Off to Report` list can be deferred individually.

Author: Thanks Zac- I checked for "time-off" (lowercase) in  a previous edit, so it didn't catch this one - I forgot VSCode seems to be case-sensitive. All changed now!
